A case in this video we're going to be looking at the upper and lower string function and what the upper
and lower string functions do.
You state in your column data either into all uppercase or all lowercase.
So the upper function tends to call them deep data into uppercase and the lower function turns your
data or returns your data in lowercase.
And if we look at the example Escudo queries here you can see that to apply the upper and lower the
string function.
We need to be selecting data from a table.
So we type select and then we type either upper or lower open a pair of brackets have a column within
the brackets.
So this will apply the upper function to column 1 and this would apply the lower function to Column
1.
We set our column name alias here.
And then we're selecting from a table.
So select upper column on as new column name from a table.
So now let's look at an example from our cinema booking system.
So let's select data from the Reames table.
Let's select name from rooms and we can see this if we just do it without the upper and lower first
you can see that we have all rooms so we have our free rooms Chamblin Kubrick and Capella.
Now let's apply the upper string function to the name column.
So let's type selects upper name from rooms and let's compare the results.
Let's compare the output.
So you see now that the three names are all in capitals.
So we have chapping Kubrick Cappello like befool But now every single character in the string is an
upper case character.
And you can see here that I forgot to apply the column name alias so said she would turn the column
name as upper and bracket name close bracket.
So let's just apply a alias so we can actually say name so we can give it the same name as the original
column had.
And you can see now we have the column name and all three rooms all in uppercase.
So now let's look at an example of lowa the lever function.
So let selects low name as name from Reems.
So it's the same select query but instead of applying the upper function we're applying the lower function.
So let's run that and you can see now that we have the name column and it's return the results all in
lower.
So lower case first letter and every other letter is lower case as well.
And if we go back to our original query you can see that the first letter was actually uppercase.
I always turn this to a lower case and that's it for the upper and lower function.
There are fairly simple functions.
The upper function just changes your column data into uppercase and the lower function changes your
colon data into lowercase.